[Music]
healthy General Tso's chicken hi this is
Jayden from steamy kitchen comm it's one
of the most popular dishes in Chinese
American restaurants but strangely
enough it's not found in China it was
named after General Joe of the Ching
dynasty in the 1800s but the dish wasn't
invented until about a hundred years
later by a Taiwanese chef who opened a
restaurant in New York
according to fuchsia Dunlop the favorite
dish the favorite Chinese dish of
Secretary of State Henry Kissinger is
general toast chicken and I'm going to
quote this it is described as a quote
stir-fried masterpiece sizzling hot and
both flavor and temperature well there
are two things I think about when my
husband orders general Jones chicken at
a restaurant
I have never ordered it but when you
ordered that I think of two things deep
fried and heavy so my version which i
think is a stir-fried masterpiece is
going to be much healthier no
deep-frying and it's going to be a
beautiful beautiful sauce you can make
it as spicy as you want let's make the
sauce first in a bowl add soy sauce rice
vinegar or white vinegar honey chili
garlic sauce chicken broth and
cornstarch kind of whisk that all
together and we're going to set that
aside next cut the chicken breast into
1-inch pieces and toss with cornstarch
and a little grind of freshly ground
black pepper mix well so every single
piece of chicken is coated this
cornstarch is gonna give your chicken a
really nice crust without deep frying
now for the aromatics
I've got minced ginger garlic that I'm
gonna grate on a rasp grater it makes it
just easier to cut up and mince and
green onions chop the broccoli into
small florets but don't throw away the
stalks this is what I do cut off the
tough end discard that and use your
knife to take off the outer section of
the stock which is a lot tougher and
very difficult to eat what you're left
with is actually really really tender
stock I cut these into small piece
now we're ready to cook we're going to
steam the broccoli with a bit of boiling
water for two minutes the broccoli
should still be slightly crunchy yet
tender and cooked drain the broccoli
rinse with cool water to stop the
cooking and set aside return your pan or
wok to the stove and dry really really
well because you're going to add oil and
next turn your heat to high and when
it's hot go ahead and swirl in the
cooking oil making sure that oil covers
as much surface as possible add the
chicken but you're gonna do this in
stages you don't want to over crawl the
chicken because you want the chicken to
have enough room to Brown nicely so I'm
doing this in two batches I'm adding the
chicken in a single layer and here's the
important stuff leave it alone you have
a time to brown and then flip the
chicken over see that nice golden crust
you can't get that if you keep trying to
stir and move the chicken about flip the
chicken over let it cook another couple
of minutes to brown the other side and
then remove those chicken pieces they're
only halfway cooked if that's perfect
what you want to do is remove the
chicken that is browned on both sides to
a separate Bowl and as you remove the
chicken continually add more raw chicken
to the pan to cook patience do not
overcrowd once you're done with all the
chicken keep the wok on the stove and
now it's turn down the heat so that we
don't burn the aromatics which is the
green onion garlic and ginger then pour
in the sauce that we made earlier stir
fry for about 30 seconds until your
kitchen smells wonderful bring to a
simmer and then add back in the half
cooked chicken and the steamed broccoli
toss really well until everything's
coated through let it cook for another
minute and that is it sprinkle with
sesame seeds and you're ready to serve
easy right for the full recipe or if you
have any questions at all head over to
steamy kitchen duck comm / 165 my
cookbook steamy kitchens healthy Asian
favorites is available at all book
stores including amazon.com